CRACKING THE CODING INTERVIEW

3: SPECIAL SITUATIONS

Testers and SDETs (software design engineers in test):
    Prepare the Core Testing Problems:
        How would you test a light bulb?
        A pen?
        A cash register?
    Practice the Coding Questions:
        Number one reason why SDETS get rejected.
        Do the usual coding and algorithm questions.
    Practice Testing the Coding Questions:
        "Write code to do X"
        ... & then after doing so
        "Test the code if it functions properly"
    Note:
        SDET position is easier than most, but a job to be stuck in.
    
Product (and Program) Management:
    Handling Ambiguity:
        They want to see you not get overwhelmed and stall.
        Tackle the problem head on.
    Customer Focus (Attitude):
        Empathize with the users on how they will use the software.
        "Design an alarm clock for the blind".
        Ask questions to who the user is.
    Customer Focus (Technical Skills):
        Technical knowledge not as necessary, but nice to have.
    Multi-Level Communication:
        Able to communicate at all levels in the company.
        "Explain TCP/IP" to your grandma.
    Passion for Technology:
        Happy is productive.
    Teamwork/Leadership:
        Most important.
        How well do you work with other people?
        "Tell me about a conflict with a team member".
    Note:
        Vary wildly across companies and even within a company.

Dev Lead and Managers:
    Teamwork/Leadership:
        Explicit evaluation:
            How have you handled disagreements?
        Implicit evaluation:
            How you speak to the interviewer themselves.
    Prioritization:
        How to make a team meet a tough deadline.
        Asking the right questions to hit critical spots.
    Communication:
        Evaluation of your personality since it's a leader role.
    "Getting Things Done":
        Right balance of preparing and implementing.
        Motivate people.
    Note:
        Strong coding skills are almost always required.

Startups:
    Can be acquired by bigger companies.
    Interview process for this determines fate of company and workers.

Interviewers:
    Don't copy paste questions.
    Ask medium and hard problems to vary the performance cluster.
    Use questions with multiple hurdles than a single hurdle.
    Use hard questions, not hard knowledge.
    Avoid "scary" questions.
    Offer positive reinforcement.
    Probe deeper on behavioral questions.
    Coach your candidates.
    If they want silence, give them silence.
    Know your mode: Sanity, quality, specialist, and proxy.
        Sanity:
            Easy problem-solving or design problems.
            Quick filter to check candidates.
            "Find the answer to this riddle"
        Quality:
            More challenging problems.
            Use these when algorithmic/problem-solving skills are top tier.
        Specialist:
            Test specific topics such as a coding language.
            Problem is that if it's easy to learn, why bother asking?
            Should be for skills that couldn't be learned in a day.
        Proxy:
            Not quite at the specialist.
            Might not even need it.
            Should be easy questions tailored to the position.
            If you worked with JavaScript:
                Why do we use === all the time rather than ==?
    Note:
        Most companies mix and match these:
            Ask specialist questions to non-specialists.
            Hire specialist when not needed.
            Need specialist but ask basic questions.
            Ask sanity questions, not quality questions.