CRACKING THE CODING INTERVIEW SUMMARY

TODO:
    SPEAK YOUR THOUGHT PROCESS BOI
    INTERVIEWS ARE RELATIVE TO OTHER APPLICANTS

Rather, your interviewer will make an assessment of your performance, usually based on the following: 

BOOKMARK: PAGE 15

1: THE INTERVIEW PROCESS

Analytical skills: 
    Did you need much help solving the problem? 
    How optimal was your solution? 
    How long did it take you to arrive at a solution? 
    If you had to design/architect a new solution, did you structure the problem well 
        and think through the tradeoffs of different decisions? 
    
Coding skills: 
    Were you able to successfully translate your algorithm to reasonable code? 
    Was it clean and well-organized? Did you think about potential errors? 
    Did you use good style? 

Technical knowledge/ Computer Science fundamentals: 
    Do you have a strong foundation in computer science and the relevant technologies? 

Experience: 
    Have you made good technical decisions in the past? 
    Have you built interesting, challenging projects? 
    Have you shown drive, initiative, and other important factors?

Culture fit/ Communication skills: 
    Do your personality and values fit with the company and team? 
    Did you communicate well with your interviewer? 
    The weighting of these areas will vary based on the question, interviewer, role, team, and company. 
        In a standard algorithm question, it might be almost entirely the first three of those

The way people are accessed for a job is not only to the job description,
    but who's the best amongst the candidates.

2: BEHIND THE SCENES

If you have waited more than a week after an interview, follow up!

3: SPECIAL SITUATIONS

Testers and SDETs (software design engineers in test):
    Prepare the Core Testing Problems:
        How would you test a light bulb?
        A pen?
        A cash register?
    Practice the Coding Questions:
        Number one reason why SDETS get rejected.
        Do the usual coding and algorithm questions.
    Practice Testing the Coding Questions:
        "Write code to do X"
        ... & then after doing so
        "Test the code if it functions properly"
    Note:
        SDET position is easier than most, but a job to be stuck in.
    
Product (and Program) Management:
    Handling Ambiguity:
        
    Note:
        Vary wildly across companies and even within a company.