5: BEHAVIORAL QUESTIONS

Interview Preparation Grid:
    Have 3 separate projects for each of the common questions.
        Challenges
        Mistakes/Failures
        Enjoyed
        Leadership
        Conflicts
        What You'd Do Differently

What are your weaknesses?
    Give a real weakness.
    Also could be treated as "Where do you need to improve?"
    "Attention to detail, due to that I need someone to check my work."
    "Water because I'm a Fire type Pokemon"
    "There's a bunch of obstacles out there I need to face such as this
        interview, but I choose not to see them as weaknesses, but more
        as opportunities to grow."
    "It takes me a bit to know people and situations before I weigh in
        on something they're discussing. I'm usually listening and
        analyzing, but when I contribute I make it worthwhile and
        sometimes it takes a while to find that balance for me."

What questions should you ask the interviewer?
    Genuine questions:
        "What is the ratio of testers to devs to program managers?"
        "How does project planning happen on the team?"
        "What brought you to this company?"
    Insightful questions:
        "I noticed you use tech X, how do you handle problem Y?"
        "Why do you tend to go with this stack as aside from this stack?"
    Passion questions:
        "I can see the areas of growth here, but what about in the future?"
        "I'm not familiar with tech X, could you tell me more?"

Know your Technical Projects:
    Focus on 2 or 3 technical projects to master.
    Be able to talk about:
        Your role.
        Mistakes made along the way.
        Technical depth.
        Scalability.
        Challenges.

Responding to Behavioral Questions:
    Be specific, not arrogant.
        Don't say "I did all the hard stuff".
        To combat this, be specific about the challenges and have empathy.
    Limit details.
        Sometimes the interviewer doesn't know what you know.
        Keep it elementary and offer to explain more as a choice to them.
    Focus on yourself, not your team.
        Although it's nice to say "we", when asked specifically about a role, focus on you.
    Give structured answers:
        Nugget V.S. SAR (Situation, Action, Result) (Also known as STAR or CAR)

        page 45
